<System Name> System Design Doc
Proposal Status: Draft
Last Major Update: Feb 5, 2026




Owner(s): 
Insert @mention names.




Stakeholders / Approvers Sign off[a]
Name
	Due Date
	Project Role
	Decision
	

	

	

	Approved
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

Objective
What problem are we solving? How do we know it’s solved?
Requirements
List high level requirements with links to detailed requirements documents 
Design Summary for Business[b]
High level system design description + high level architecture diagrams
Detailed Design for Engineers
How will everything work together? What does each component do? What is the tech stack and briefly why? How will this design scale? If auditing is needed, how will that be done, and how will the audit logs be scrubbed of PHI? [c]
Alternatives
What other technical options are there to the design we are proposing?
Metrics, Monitoring & Alerting
How do we verify that the software is working and react if it stops working or malfunctions? What tools are we using?
Deployment, Integration[d] and Rollout
When, how, and how often will we deploy? How will we integrate this solution with existing systems? Are there any logistical or data management issues to watch for on rollout?
Testing
Discuss automated test suites, E2E testing, test data management strategies, regression testing, load and performance testing, proposed automation framework, code coverage requirements, and/or QA process.
Security and Compliance Concerns
Are we complying with the law? How do we make sure our data is secure and isn’t exposed? How are we controlling PHI? What safeguards are there for security and authorization? How are we minimizing and monitoring for vulnerabilities? Discuss Secret management and certificates. 
Glossary
[a]This should be a living document, We don't want to have stakeholders / apprivers.
[b]I still think this should be called High Level Design. Thinking more about this, this document is for the engineering organization and the goal of the design document is to document all architecual design decisions so that years in the future it is clear why something is the way it is. While "business/product" leaders can view it, it is for engineers and the high level design is the birds eye view of the system.


Similarly, the detailed design or the Design Details are the nitty gritty details of all the blocks in the high level design, the precise technologyt that is used for each component, how they communicate, how data flows, etc.
[c]I think this should be in a separate L1 heading, or be down with what used to be the Data Management heading..
[d]This should be included in the High Level Design section as (boxes) and in a lot more detail  in the Detail Design section.